we had a slide we had a really good
slide in Our Deck this is a New Yorker
cartoon and there's a dog typing on the
internet and there's a dog looking over
his shoulder very carefully and the dog
typing in the air that says you know the
great thing about the internet is nobody
knows you're a dog and I love that slide
and it's kind of true like you can't
tell how big a company is on the
internet uh through their website and
whatnot and so we thought the internet
disproportionately benefited small
businesses startups relative to large
businesses and scale-ups and that was
our that was our thesis and everybody
thought we were wrong it was the hardest
chapters in HubSpot were raising all our
funding rounds because nobody everybody
wanted us to go to the Enterprise yeah
and when we were thought wrong for a
very long time every board meeting every
like it's like okay so we get it that
you're starting an SMB but surely you
have a path to the Enterprise I'm like
no we we're doing SMB year goes by five
years go by 10 Years Ago by one of the
IPO roads but but you must have a path
I'm like I know it's but where's like no
I hate when they call you Shirley like I
know yeah do you think um and I do want
to talk about what the vision was on day
Zero versus today but this the more I
thought about this SMB stuff and I had
some I had I had some of that DNA too
but I changed my mind quickly to to
survive sure
but do you think it's just it really is
people's DNA
um that that it's it's that passion is
that what kept kept I mean we'll talk in
a minute about as you said in a tweet as
HubSpot at a you know at a low five
figure price points really a a bigger
SMB or an M of the xmb really the m and
SMB but when the board was pushing you
back in the day
um was it more cultural was it more just
we don't want to do it as human beings
because we don't have passion
I think two things we did we did think
that the internet disproportionately
benefits a small relative to large
particularly on the marketing side
we also saw the business model evolving
where you can actually scale a small
business
software company you there are two
tricks to it you need to keep your tack
low which is a hard thing to do and you
can't do that with with like major
advertising budgets
um yeah you need some sort of viral
marketing premium motion product like
growth you need to really get good at
keeping cat glow and then you're going
to churn out customers so your customer
your customer dollar retention you're
going to have a divot to fill and you
need a second product or a second access
to your pricing so your best customers
can fill that divot and you grow through
it and the metrics on HubSpot like if
you look at HubSpot back
uh maybe in 2012 when you wrote that
article like our customer dollar
retention was probably 70 and our upsell
was maybe five so we were 75 percent
um uh total and now that 70's gone to
plus or minus 90 and so customers are
much happier they're staying around
longer or whatnot and then the upsell is
more like 20 in South 110. and so over
time our business model got much
stronger our and our product got much
stronger and really helped us scale yeah
I didn't I did hit that later but I
didn't it's interesting so if when we
wrote this you were in 20 30 million
something Revenue you still had crummy
SMB numbers well today we would call
them shitty SMD numbers no no VC no
matter how they just just made 5 billion
on figma would fund an SMB company at 25
million err with 75 yeah we know why it
is like the smallest do churn every
month they go out of business they
change and upsell's hard how did you
what's your advice on that because I I
I'm CR I challenge folks to at least
have a path to 100 it's like a path to
profitability like you also I think
almost need a path to 100 so that you
don't plateau
when the mechanics are not hard it's
exactly the component pieces you have to
make the product better right you invest
in customer success so more people are
getting adoption maniacally focus on
that churn rate uh the customer dollar
turn and then you have to either have
seed expansion or more products to sell
or a tier expansion like otherwise the
math just doesn't work there's just no
way to kind of get there from here but
did you feel like you were
anything less than fully succeeding when
you had that sort of sub-optimal inner
arm pressure up at night yeah the whole
time where we had a high turn and you
know sub 100 we're like and this is
we're having a you know a pretty good
run but this is not going to be the
thing what was the board saying were
they saying this is great the 75 Revenue
I'll take